# Recommender System
A Recommender system is an application within machine learning that utilizes mathematical algorithms and statistics to find recommendations based on a users data.

## Background of doing this project
During my senior year in college, I had a computer science class that was required of me to take called capstone in which we needed to find a specific topic in a computer science field. Here, I was assigned with a group, and we chose the field of artificial intelligence in which I chose recommender systems. Now, our professor had to cut off some parts of our learning experience due to less timing with our schedule. To add some context, I was having classes during the coronavirus pandemic, and my school (CSBSJU) switched to the block schedule which caused less time for our class to learn more. Anyways, one essential learning part within our capstone that was cut out was our tech demo. I never got the chance to do it which made me feel unfulfilled. This repository will be my version of a recommneder system which won't be perfect, but I will improve upon it. I have attached my research paper on recommneder systems in case if you ever wanted to read it. In my paper on recommender systems, I explain the background, technical analysis, and my thoughts on it. 

## Background of Recommender Systems
The history of recommender systems is complex since their are many contributing factors for it to exist: marketing, computer science, mathematics, etc. In my paper, I never got the chance to explain its history, so I will give a brief overview of it. Recommender systems begin with the idea of recommendations where people would suggestions on what they want. These systems would not exist until the rise of information and the internet. This would allow E-commerce (Amazon, Google, Netflix, etc.) to utilize for it's fullest potiential. 

## Technical Analysis
In my paper, I gave a more general depth on the recommender system model which utilizes three filtering models: Content-based filtering, Collaborative filtering, and Hybrid filtering. I used collaborative filtering as my example of explaining recommender systems, then I explained recommender systems in a more mathematical way in which the mathematical tools that I used were matrix factorization. You can read my paper where I explain the mathematics behind it. 
